Add documentation on using & creating plugins. (#2452)
tuist/tuist: website/markdown/docs/plugins/creating-plugins.mdx

---
name: Creating plugins
excerpt: Learn how to create plugins for Tuist.
---

# Creating plugins

## Plugin

A plugin to Tuist is a directory with a `Plugin.swift` manifest. This manifest is used to define specific attributes of a plugin.

## Plugin.swift manifest

```swift
import ProjectDescription

let plugin = Plugin(name: "MyPlugin")
```

## Project description helpers

> Project description helpers can be used to extend Tuists functionality and Tuist automatically grabs the sources for
> these, compiles it, and allows it to be imported during project generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Project description helpers can be used to extend Tuist's functionality: Tuist automatically compiles the sources and allows it to be imported during project generation.
```

I assume "it" here is the ProjectDescriptionHelper so might make sense to be more clear on that too

In order for Tuist to find the source files for these helpers they must be placed in the same direcotry as the `Plugin.swift` manifest and in a
directory called `ProjectDescriptionHelpers`

```
.
├── ...
├── Plugin.swift
├── ProjectDescriptionHelpers
└── ...
```

The `.swift` files in the `ProjectDescriptionHelpers` directory are collected and compiled and can then be imported using the name
of the plugin:

```swift
import ProjectDescription
import MyPlugin

...
```

## Example

> Let's walkthrough creating a custom plugin for Tuist! Our plugin will be named `MyTuistPlugin` and we want to add a new method to `Project` that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's walk through creating a custom plugin for Tuist! Our plugin will be named `MyTuistPlugin` and we want to add a new method to `Project` that will
```
